.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

### Checklist Before Starting

- [ ] Searched for similar PR(s).
- [ ] Checked PR Title format
  - In format of: [modules] type: Title
  - modules are in `fsdp, megatron, sglang, vllm, rollout, trainer, ci, training_utils, recipe, hardware, deployment, ray, worker, single_controller, misc, perf, model, algo, env, tool, ckpt, doc, data`
  - type is in `feat, fix, refactor, chore, test`
  - can involve multiple modules, seperated by `,` or space, like `[megatron, fsdp, doc] feat: xxx`

### What does this PR do?

> Add one-line overview of what this PR aims to achieve or accomplish. Reference related github issues and PRs if that help review.

### Test

> For changes that can not be tested by CI (e.g., algorithm implementation, new model support), validate by experiment(s) and show results like training curve plots, evaluatuion results, etc.

### High-Level Design

> Demonstrate the high-level design if this PR is complex.

### Specific Changes

> List the specific changes.

### API

> Demonstrate how the API changes if any.

### Usage Example

> Provide usage example(s) for easier usage.

```python
# Add code snippet or script demonstrating how to use this 
```

### Checklist Before Submitting

- [ ] Read the [Contribute Guide](https://github.com/volcengine/verl?tab=readme-ov-file#contribution-guide).
- [ ] Apply [pre-commit checks](https://github.com/volcengine/verl?tab=readme-ov-file#code-linting-and-formatting).
- [ ] Add `[BREAKING]` to the PR title `description` if it breaks any API.
- [ ] Update the documentation about your changes in the [docs](https://github.com/volcengine/verl/tree/main/docs).
- [ ] New CI unit test(s) are added to cover the code path.
- [ ] Rely on existing unit tests on CI that covers the code path.

Commit message:

feat: add CI request channel & improve PR template

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

### Checklist Before Starting

- [ ] Search for similar PRs. Paste at least one query link here: ...
- [ ] Format the PR title as `[{modules}] {type}: {description}` (This will be checked by the CI)
  - `{modules}` include `fsdp`, `megatron`, `sglang`, `vllm`, `rollout`, `trainer`, `ci`, `training_utils`, `recipe`, `hardware`, `deployment`, `ray`, `worker`, `single_controller`, `misc`, `perf`, `model`, `algo`, `env`, `tool`, `ckpt`, `doc`, `data`
  - If this PR involves multiple modules, separate them with `, `, e.g., `[megatron, fsdp, doc]`
  - `{type}` is in `feat`, `fix`, `refactor`, `chore`, `test`
  - If this PR breaks any API (CLI arguments, config, function signature, etc.), add `[BREAKING]` to the beginning of the title.
  - Example: `[BREAKING][fsdp, megatron] feat: dynamic batching`

### What does this PR do?

> Add **concise** overview of what this PR aims to achieve or accomplish. Reference related github issues and PRs if that help review.

### API

> Demonstrate how the API changes if any.

### Usage Example

> Provide usage example(s) for easier usage.

```python
# Add code snippet or script demonstrating how to use this
```

### High-Level Design

> Demonstrate the high-level design if this PR is complex.

### Specific Changes

> List the specific changes.

### Test

> For changes that can not be tested by CI (e.g., algorithm implementation, new model support), validate by experiment(s) and show results like training curve plots, evaluatuion results, etc.

### Checklist Before Submitting

NOTE: Please check all the following items before requesting a review, otherwise the reviewer might deprioritize this PR for review.

- [ ] Read the [Contribute Guide](https://github.com/volcengine/verl?tab=readme-ov-file#contribution-guide).
- [ ] Apply [pre-commit checks](https://github.com/volcengine/verl?tab=readme-ov-file#code-linting-and-formatting).
- [ ] Add / Update [the documentation](https://github.com/volcengine/verl/tree/main/docs).
- [ ] Add unit or end-to-end test(s) to [the CI workflow](https://github.com/volcengine/verl/tree/main/.github/workflows) to cover all the code. If not feasible, explain why: ...
- [ ] Once your PR is ready for CI, send a message in [the `ci-request` channel](https://verl-project.slack.com/archives/C091TCESWB1) in [the `verl` Slack workspace](https://join.slack.com/t/verl-project/shared_invite/zt-3855yhg8g-CTkqXu~hKojPCmo7k_yXTQ).
