docs/README_vllm0.8.md, before:

# Upgrading to vLLM >= 0.8

## Installation

Note: This version of verl+vLLM 0.8+ supports **FSDP** for training and **vLLM** for rollout.

```bash
# Create the conda environment
conda create -n verl python==3.10
conda activate verl

# Install verl
git clone https://github.com/volcengine/verl.git
cd verl
pip3 install -e .

# Install the latest stable version of vLLM
pip3 install vllm==0.8.3

# Install flash-attn
pip3 install flash-attn --no-build-isolation

```

We have a pre-built docker image for verl+vLLM 0.8.3. You can direct import it with the following command:

```bash
docker pull hiyouga/verl:ngc-th2.6.0-cu126-vllm0.8.3-flashinfer0.2.2-cxx11abi0
```

## Features

vLLM 0.8+ supports cuda graph and V1 engine by default in verl. To enable these features, remember to add the following lines to the bash script:

```bash
actor_rollout_ref.rollout.enforce_eager=False \
actor_rollout_ref.rollout.free_cache_engine=False \
```

and also **remove** the environment variable if it exists:

```bash
# If you are using vllm<=0.6.3, you might need to set the following environment variable to avoid bugs:
# export VLLM_ATTENTION_BACKEND=XFORMERS
```

## Notes

When you just directly upgrade vllm>=0.8, some dependency packages may undergo version changes. If you encounter the following problems:

```bash
in <module> from torch.multiprocessing.reductions import ForkingPickler ImportError: cannot import name 'ForkingPickler' from 'torch.multiprocessing.reductions' (/opt/conda/lib/python3.11/site-packages/torch/multiprocessing/reductions.py)
```

You need to upgrade `tensordict` to version 0.6.2 using the command `pip install tensordict==0.6.2`.

Commit message:

Remove vLLM 0.5.4 and 0.6.3 specific code branches
- Remove vLLMRollout class from vllm_rollout.py (keep only _pre_process_inputs helper)
- Remove third-party vllm_v_0_5_4 and vllm_v_0_6_3 directories
- Remove version-specific conditional code from rollout and sharding managers
- Remove test_vllm_hf_loader.py and related CI workflow steps
- Update documentation to remove 0.5.4/0.6.3 references
- Update all script comments about vLLM version requirements
- Simplify vLLM import logic to only support ≥0.7.0
- Remove fire_vllm_rollout.py (legacy implementation)
- Update device API usage whitelists

Co-Authored-By: H <linhaibin.eric@gmail.com>

docs/README_vllm0.8.md, after:

# Upgrading to vLLM >= 0.8

## Installation

Note: This version of verl+vLLM 0.8+ supports **FSDP** for training and **vLLM** for rollout.

```bash
# Create the conda environment
conda create -n verl python==3.10
conda activate verl

# Install verl
git clone https://github.com/volcengine/verl.git
cd verl
pip3 install -e .

# Install the latest stable version of vLLM
pip3 install vllm==0.8.3

# Install flash-attn
pip3 install flash-attn --no-build-isolation

```

We have a pre-built docker image for verl+vLLM 0.8.3. You can direct import it with the following command:

```bash
docker pull hiyouga/verl:ngc-th2.6.0-cu126-vllm0.8.3-flashinfer0.2.2-cxx11abi0
```

## Features

vLLM 0.8+ supports cuda graph and V1 engine by default in verl. To enable these features, remember to add the following lines to the bash script:

```bash
actor_rollout_ref.rollout.enforce_eager=False \
actor_rollout_ref.rollout.free_cache_engine=False \
```

and also **remove** the environment variable if it exists:

```bash
# This environment variable is no longer needed for vLLM 0.8+:
# export VLLM_ATTENTION_BACKEND=XFORMERS
```

## Notes

When you just directly upgrade vllm>=0.8, some dependency packages may undergo version changes. If you encounter the following problems:

```bash
in <module> from torch.multiprocessing.reductions import ForkingPickler ImportError: cannot import name 'ForkingPickler' from 'torch.multiprocessing.reductions' (/opt/conda/lib/python3.11/site-packages/torch/multiprocessing/reductions.py)
```

You need to upgrade `tensordict` to version 0.6.2 using the command `pip install tensordict==0.6.2`.
